中國陰曆的新年叫作春節，和西方的聖誕節一樣，是中國人一年中最重要最熱鬧的節日，也是全家人團圓的日子，所以出門在外的人必須在年前趕回家來，大中小學也都在這個時候開始放寒假。
從陰曆十二月初開始，人們就要準備過年了，先得把屋子打掃得乾乾淨淨，然後在門口貼上一副紅色的對聯，和一個倒著的福字表示福到了。
大年三十晚上全家人坐在一起，親親熱熱地吃一頓年夜飯，夜裡十二點大人和孩子都跑到外邊去放鞭炮，據說這是為了把一個名字叫夕的怪物嚇跑，使全家人一年平安，所以這一天也叫除夕。
正月初一人們穿上新衣服，帶著水果或點心去親友家拜年，互相說一些祝福的話，比如身體健康恭喜發財萬事如意等等，孩子們也可以從大人那裡得到裝著錢的小紅包。
最近這些年大城市裡的人，不再把春節看得那麼重要了，有些人覺得在家做飯太麻煩，就把年夜飯搬到餐館裡去吃，也有人利用這個假期去旅行，就連拜年也變得簡單了，只要用手機發幾條短信就行了。

English translation:
The Chinese Lunar New Year, known as the Spring Festival, is the most important and festive holiday of the year for Chinese people, similar to Christmas in the West. It is also a time for family reunions, so those who are away from home must rush back before the festival. Schools of all levels—primary, middle, and high—also begin their winter holidays during this period.
Starting from the beginning of the twelfth month in the lunar calendar, people begin preparations for the New Year. First, they thoroughly clean their houses. Then, they put up red couplets and an upside-down "福" (Fu, meaning "blessing") on their doors, symbolizing that blessings have arrived.
On New Year's Eve, the whole family sits together for a warm and hearty reunion dinner. At midnight, both adults and children go outside to set off firecrackers. It is said that this tradition drives away a mythical beast called "Xi," ensuring the family's safety for the year. Hence, this day is also known as "除夕" (Chu Xi, meaning "Eve of Departure").
On the first day of the lunar New Year, people wear new clothes and visit relatives and friends with gifts of fruits or snacks to extend New Year's greetings. They exchange blessings such as "Good health," "Congratulations on getting rich," and "May all your wishes come true." Children also receive red envelopes containing money from adults.
In recent years, people in big cities no longer regard the Spring Festival as seriously as before. Some find cooking at home too troublesome and opt to have their reunion dinner at restaurants. Others use the holiday to travel. Even New Year's greetings have become simpler—many people now just send a few text messages on their phones.